[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Dear all,
we have one more talk
to finish. While listening to the story, everyone
understands as much as they can. Regarding the encouragement, how
should we point out mistakes and reprimand? Do you all agree? Encouragement
means pointing out
mistakes and reprimanding. As for telling
stories to each other, everyone likes it.
People like it very much, so they only like
telling stories to each other;
nobody likes someone who criticizes or reprimands
them.
But which leads to happiness?
Receiving criticism, receiving reprimand,
receiving encouragement. Talking
to each other just for
pleasure doesn't
lead to benefit or liberation.
But in life, reprimand
often leads to enmity, which is why
many people fall into depravity, while those who practice spiritual cultivation escape it
less often. This is because people
like to hear reprimands.  There are too few
people listening to the reprimands, and the
people doing the reprimanding are
too many, right? Therefore,
in this practice session, we
must cultivate this mindset:
when people speak, we must understand their intentions and
purpose.
That's what it means to be a person who can
perceive the world. Do you understand?
If someone hasn't yet discovered
the purpose behind someone's words,
then that person is
blind and knows nothing about the world. They
live a whole life but remain completely ignorant.
But
when someone begins to understand
and speak, when they know what someone is trying to convey and
what they should accept
from what is being conveyed, that's
called having eyes. Last time
we studied the Dharma lesson about people with eyes and those
without eyes. So, if
someone begins to awaken...  The eye of
wisdom is knowing how to listen to
others speak. Knowing how to listen and
speak is what makes one
wise. The Buddha saw that
this world is full of
suffering, right? He saw that
suffering is real, but he also knew the cause of
this suffering for sentient beings. He also knew
what needed to be done to free sentient beings from suffering. That's what it means to have "seeing with the
eye." It's like walking down
a road and seeing a puddle of mud,
right? You know that stepping into the
mud is suffering. Then you
see the people in the mud, and you see
how to get out
of the mud and
how to avoid stepping into it. That's what it
means to see
things, right? Anything else is
not what it means to see. So, our
purpose in practicing Buddhism is simply
to open that eye of wisdom.
To open it, we must
first learn how to see and how to
listen. If,
throughout a lifetime of practice, we don't learn
how to see, we don't learn how to listen.
Hearing isn't what you call knowing how to practice, but rather just
following what you hear and see,
meaning you follow what others say is good, and listen to what
others say. Doing that doesn't mean you truly know how to listen and see. That's right, everyone.
We practice like this to
learn how to listen and see.
Last night, I shared with
everyone so they could
think about the reasons why we are ungrateful and become
ungrateful later on. Where does that come from? That's
how listening and
seeing combine to achieve
those two things. Do you understand? But
this morning, I saw that no
one was sitting alone eating their breakfast. Everyone was huddled
together, eating and
talking. So last night and
this morning, no one has practiced. You see,
right? Sitting huddled together,
how can you think about anything?
What kind of karmic connection will bring you enlightenment? You have to
sit alone.  The karmic connection has only just
arrived, and only then do I have time to contemplate. Right
now, sitting here, the wind blows, the clouds drift, and all sorts of things happen.
But these two people's
minds are busy; one gives to the
other, the other gives to the other, and so on and so forth.
How can we know the karmic
connection that leads to enlightenment? If we want enlightenment, we must have tranquility, understand? If we're always searching for each other to engage in conflict like this, when will we ever be able to escape? That's called attachment, full of attachment,
understand?
Because of the mind's attachment, it binds them together, their
minds are tightly intertwined. They
can't separate,
so how can we escape this? Do you see?
Practice alone. Practice
this story alone, absorb it alone, and
handle it alone. So now
we must have these methods. Up here,
living is about practicing the practice of solitude, alone.
Whatever we do, we can handle
our lives by ourselves and
not rely on anyone else. That's what it means to
rely on the Dharma, do you
see?
The things we hear, these things...
Knowing that we think for ourselves, we
purify our minds, become masters of
ourselves without needing to tell
anyone. Only those things we haven't
resolved, or those we've resolved that we suspect
aren't right, and even after repeatedly discussing legal principles, if we
still don't find it satisfactory, should
seek out wise teachers to
ask for clarification and
further understanding. Laypeople can also
think about the Dharma of laypeople.
However, to be able to think
effectively, we must filter out what is present
in us—the things
that cause us distress.
We shouldn't keep adding more.
For example, if Yen says, "
This glass of water already has soil in it," then we
should only deal with that soil, not
add more. Would that really solve anything? If you keep adding soil
all day, and then
want to meditate at night
to get rid of it, wouldn't that be a sign of being
confused?
Therefore,
we shouldn't keep adding more.  Furthermore, if
someone talks about useless things that don't
benefit you, don't listen to them anymore, and
don't go to their place to sit
anymore. Do you all agree with this?
Yen hopes that you all have a
place where you can talk to someone who
is helpful, who
gives you
good advice, or who only
brings things
that have no value to your life. If they only bring things that have no value to
your life, then you don't go anymore to save
time, right?
No value at all. That means Yen is saying it
straight: it brings no blessings, no
wisdom, and you don't
learn anything from them. That's why the Buddha
taught us: if you ca
n't find a friend,
then you should
live alone. Don't befriend a
fool. This is from the Dhammapada, do you all
understand? Now, if you can't find a
friend, that means a friend who helps
you become better, who makes
your life better, who solves
your emotional suffering. If you
can't find such a friend to share with,
then live alone. Do you all
agree? But I will definitely not do that.  You associate with
fools—what kind of fool is someone who only brings
trouble and suffering?
If you keep befriending fools,
how can you benefit
your life? Do you understand? So,
which friend do you have who brings you trouble and negative
traits? Let's examine ourselves
today and see
what bad traits we still have.
Do you understand? Let's see which male or female friend is
compatible with
your bad traits. Why do you keep having
those friends? I
've already shared with
you about friends before. In life, when one
friend leaves, another comes.
Karma never remains silent. If
you have the karmic connection of doing good,
then this good friend will
form and come to you in some
rare karmic encounter. For example, if you are a
good friend and you often help
others, then this bad friend will run
away, and this karmic connection will grow
because you won't be affected by that bad friend.
If you burn away your good karma,
this bad friend will keep burning away your
good karma, preventing
good friends from coming to you. Do you
understand? If you keep increasing your good
karma, then naturally,
unintentionally, for example, if you fall,
someone will come to help you. That
's a good person; that's the beginning of a
connection. But if you
keep those bad relationships, it will
only increase the bad karma, so
how can you have good friends?
This is what Yen is aiming for
with the younger generation. As for the elders and
older people here, it's up to you to do as much as you can.
If
you go home and don't gain more
friends, then just stay home and do
housework. Just housework, don't go
gossiping with neighbors about things that don't
benefit you. Do
you all agree?
So, Yen is reminding everyone like this.
Yesterday, Yen reprimanded
everyone, and now, that's the end of my reprimands.
Now, let's move on to the second point.  Regarding the issue of speaking
to the public, Yen usually speaks about this
later, never
beforehand, so for the public, that's
already good
[music].
Honestly, let's give the
public a round of applause.
Yen said it's good.
Those who have the karmic connection to get
here are rare, much more so than many
others, right? That's what
Yen sees. Yesterday I felt
sad, but today I feel
happy.
Today, Yen is very happy because we are the
ones who put aside all our work
to come here, and even happier because
everyone's karmic connection has brought everyone
here. I praise that karmic connection.
And thirdly, Yen
knows that whether people diligently practice or not,
this is a gathering where
everyone has come together. Many lifetimes and
future generations will return to
this karmic connection of practicing in the mountains and forests. That's why it's so
joyful, right? The
joy and
sadness are due to the person seeking benefit, so there is joy and sorrow.  It's
sad when you
're influenced by praise and criticism, so there's joy and
sadness. But what about Yen's joy and
sadness? I'm speaking to the public, it's because of the public,
not because of Yen's own heart.
Yesterday, the public listened to the Dharma but couldn't apply it,
so I said it was sad, not because I was
sad. If it could
n't be transformed, then what should it be called
sadness? Who would say it's joy? That would be a lack of
language, right?
And today, when observing the causes and
conditions of the public, what is joy? Is
this due to the intellect
or the mind? Does the intellect
have joy and sadness? And
what about the mind? Does the mind have joy and sadness? Do you all
see that? I observe
the public with my intellect, not my heart.
Therefore, the intellect never has joy or sadness;
only the heart is influenced by joy and sadness. Do you all understand? Therefore,
for the public, I have no love, no
hate, no joy, no sadness
because I use my intellect, not my heart.
Therefore, there is no anger, no
resentment. If someone is
stubborn, I might yell at them, but...  What is the
reason for shouting? It's because of this intellect. Seeing this person, I
have to shout to transform
them. Do you understand? It's not about joy or sorrow
with the masses. I have to use my intellect to
see if the masses are
experiencing joy or sorrow. Now, I'll
just tell the masses: when
you listen and don't understand, then later when you
go to school, you'll fail, and then you'll be
sad. This is the
masses' sadness, not mine. The cause of
listening but not understanding, not being able to practice, will be in the
next life. This shows that I
still have the cause at the time of learning and the time of
failing, so the masses are sad,
not me, because I didn't
fail, right? So, if the
masses' karmic conditions are favorable, then
they will rise up, and that's why the
masses are happy, not me, right? This
is the masses rising up, not me rising up, so why would I be
happy, right? So when you listen, you
must understand. But
to understand what you hear, to understand that, you must practice. That means you must
cut off attachments, you must sit still.  Don't
eat the dried rice cake alone. There are two of us, do
you understand? It's just a
very small karmic connection,
yet you
have to cultivate it little by little, not just
suddenly become a high-level practitioner. You can't just say you're a
Buddhist and go cultivate alone
in the forest. That's why the Buddha taught that you can only cultivate
alone when you understand and contemplate the Dharma.
If not, you have to rely on
the community to listen to these things, and then you can
think for yourself.
Yen's examples are just to show the
community that you shouldn't look for
people to share random things with
anymore. Just focus on one
thing. So many examples, so
many words... Up to this point, you
haven't
succeeded, do you understand? Practice, let's
practice having stories, let's
think about whether we can sit alone, whether we can
handle this alone,
we don't necessarily have to go
to others to talk, do
you understand?  This is very difficult. Just start
practicing. This is how you'll have the opportunity to become a
monk, everyone. So, have you seen
another blessing from the Three Jewels yet?
If you still have this attachment, you don't have
enough of the karmic connection to become a monk yet. You don't have the karmic
connection for the next life.
Because if you're still attached to each other like this,
you need a wife, a husband, a family. Do
you understand? The only benefit I
bring to you is
practicing
to create the karmic connection for yourself to become a monk in this life
and to truly contemplate the blessings
of the Three Jewels. So today, you've learned
another thing about the blessings of the Three Jewels.
Do you understand? Remember, you need to recognize
your karmic connection with the Three Jewels and know what it means to become a monk in the next life. It's
not just
empty vows like, "I vow to be
born as a monk in the next life and practice the
Buddha's teachings." That's just talk, there's no real cause. Do
you understand? The cause
is not wanting to go. Talking nonsense
and being around many people is crucial. Only
through words and actions can you
achieve something, a result.
What is it that requires practicing? That means
having right views, right thinking, and
right speech. It means
speaking only about things that are
relevant to you, so that
you understand. Even those who have renounced worldly life
only speak about things that are relevant
to them; they never
talk about irrelevant
worldly matters that are unrelated to
liberation. Therefore,
you must learn right speech. Right action is
your work; whatever you do, it
must be right. Now, as a layperson, you
have to make a living, so you only do
things that are beneficial to your
livelihood. For example, if you are doing
marketing, I am doing marketing. Marketing—
anything related to
achieving your marketing goals—is that
clear? You shouldn't pick up irrelevant,
unrelated things and
talk about them. That's not right.
So, as a layperson,
you can't live without talking about things that are relevant to you. You should only talk about things that
are relevant to
you, understand? And
don't talk about things that are irrelevant to you.
For example, Yen just said this: "
This world war, that world,
then there's the storm and flood over there, the meteor shower over
there, because we can't help
like that." Actually, we didn't go around talking about
earthquakes or anything like that. We just kept talking, and it did
n't
solve anything for them.
They're all over there, and we're just people who don't have enough to
eat, who don't earn
enough to eat. So, when you hear this, just
donate whatever money you can to charity.
Sitting around talking doesn't
solve anything, does it? We're thinking
too much. So, what do you all think?
Here, Hoa, I'm
going to the Buddha Shakyamuni. I respectfully ask
you, sister, and all the congregation, that in the
past few days, with your teachings and sharing of the
Dharma, I haven't been able to think much.
But yesterday, when I heard you think about
dogs, I said, "Sister, you think
a little bit like that, and I'm really stupid. I just
look at things
without thinking at all." Then
I suddenly thought about myself, at home, or for example, my husband...  If you
say something like that, or if you're
joking, I'll slap you like this.
I immediately think of a
crab, and I think about how people don't
know if they're going to catch you or
pull you out, they just keep raising their claws. My husband
often tells me that you can predict things with your eyes, and I often predict things too. Sometimes he says something wrong, but I still predict.
Because when you joke,
I know that's not right, but if
I trick you with a slap on the hand, I'll
say that this person will easily become a
crab. A crab is clearly
very stupid, thinking it's smart and hiding in a hole.
But when people spread
rumors, they know
there's a crab there, and they'll
catch it. And also, when it's
hot, it crawls up into a pile. That's why
people are
very fond of eating crabs, like crab soup.
I think that if we don't know how to practice mindfulness and contemplation,
we'll easily
become a
crab. (All of you, give him a round of applause!)  This
is the result of
very good thinking. I hope that
we all can develop our
thinking skills at all times and in all places. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni.
Respectfully addressing the Dharma center leader and
all the congregation, from yesterday
to today, I, like myself, have been
practicing. Today, the
third day of the three-day retreat in
the forest, the teacher has
taught us a lot about self-reflection on
our body and mind. Before this,
we just went to work, practiced, and went
to the temple to study, but when it came to self-
reflection on our body and mind,
today I realized that we haven't even
reflected on our own minds.
Today, during the walking meditation,
the teacher taught that walking meditation is
n't easy. Indeed,
this morning, during the walking meditation, with
each step, I started thinking:
Have I reflected on my body and mind?
Have I observed my mind?
And have I considered the things the
teacher has taught over the
past two days?  The Dharma sessions taught by the Venerable Master,
and truly, this morning
on my meditation journey here, with every
step I took, sparked
thoughts and reflections, and I am very
grateful to her for her guidance.
If I hadn't, I would have just been frantically
climbing the mountain and then frantically descending it,
without being able to contemplate
my body and mind with each step, to
reflect on what
I had accomplished and what
I had practiced.
From this contemplation of body and mind,
I realized that all the
things she taught were truly meaningful
and profound for me,
and I learned many lessons.
Before, I only knew how to
practice diligently, doing my duty,
going wherever the group went, just
doing that,
without truly reflecting or contemplating.
Having observed all the things I
've done, whether it benefits myself
or all sentient beings, from
yesterday until today, I've experienced the
rain, the sun, the wind, and the cold. Only then did I
realize the true merit and
gratitude of the teachers who have sacrificed everything for sentient beings. I've
only experienced this
for one or two nights, but I've come to understand
that the teachers have
abandoned everything for the sake of sentient beings, for the
living, for the deceased. They have given up everything,
sacrificed everything to practice meditation,
contemplation, and mindfulness of body and
mind, and cultivated virtue so that they could
attain sufficient virtue to save sentient
beings and all beings.
We then thought that
without people like the teachers, the
Dharma would be difficult to spread, and
Buddhism would not exist. And so we
thought, "Well,
I've made the right vow from the
beginning."  Reading the scriptures,
I made vows for eternity, vowing this and
that, just reading. But actually,
from last night and the meditative steps
this morning, I
realized that truly, for
eternity, I vow to follow the teacher, I vow to
follow the monks, and I vow to follow Ms.
Yen. For eternity, if not in this life, if
not in the next, then in all
other lives, I vow to
diligently follow the teachers until I attain
liberation. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully, to the
assembly, this is a
true statement. My vow is truly
mine, assembly. From my practice, it
arises from the seed in
my heart. Only then does this vow become
mine. The other is merely words,
belonging to the book. Truly, if
I can feel it, if I can taste it, then
it is mine. Just like a person
eating food must taste it for it to be
theirs. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully,
Ms. Yen.  For
three days like this,
tomorrow, when all these people go home, each will
have a different feeling and description of the scene and
emotions. Therefore, I
really want to ask you, Venerable Master,
what stories should we share with our loved ones and
what stories should we keep to ourselves so that
we can choose what is right? Amitabha Buddha, we are experiencing
dissatisfaction, so true practitioners can
overcome dissatisfaction, something
lay people cannot do because as long as there is still the
appearance of a lay person, there are still desires and cravings.
That's why the monastic community is noble; it
only develops in this way.
As for ourselves, we do
n't need to talk about the rain, the wind, or the rain. People will say you are
practicing a heterodox path. Do you understand? We
practice to realize that within us there are still
so many desires and cravings for
ourselves, and we are bound by them, causing suffering.
Because of these desires for ourselves,
we all agree,
right? So, everything
stems from our own desires and cravings.
Seeing
things like that, we know that
leaving is truly difficult, and the monastic community is truly
noble because those who have the karmic affinity to
practice
those practices are not ordinary; they must
truly go into the mountains and forests to
practice them. Because only in the mountains and forests can one find
time for meditation to reflect on
oneself. Do you all agree
with this? It's
not about saying "I went up, I slept, I
ate, I was like this." You will
never know who is in the forest or what they are like.
Because people don't
take pride in going
into the forest and becoming arrogant.
They feel that what they have accomplished is
not yet accomplished because their minds haven't
achieved it yet. Therefore, they never
boast. But if you come here just to get
through this night, to sleep, to be like this, then you
become very arrogant. Do you understand? That is
not the purpose of a monastic life.
So, that's the short answer that the
entire community must understand.
Do you all understand?  Stepping out
of the forest is a crucial point,
so his question is very
valuable to the general public. Yes, and for
everyone else, it's just
practice, briefly, please give your opinion. Yes, I'm listening very carefully. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Respectfully, Sister, the
Dharma Leader, and all fellow
practitioners, after three days of practice, there was
one mistake: taking your water. I
realize that even the smallest things require practice. The
teacher always teaches that we must accumulate merit,
even the smallest things must be done
and cultivated. So, it's true that just
a little water from my hand, but it has
given me a moment of enlightenment.
Firstly, and secondly, those of you who have gone
before me to meditate, you should also enlighten
me. Secondly, all work
must have a proper order, from
top to bottom, to bring
results and
benefit everyone. If we do things
without order from top to bottom,
or without a proper sequence, then...  It's all
about zero. And I made a mistake from
there.
Those two mistakes made me realize that I need to
think a lot about the enlightenment aspect,
from the smallest things to the biggest things. I'm done.
Amitabha Buddha. Mao, the administrator in all the work at the temple, in the Dharma center, in the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club, yesterday, why did
n't Yen remind Mao to come up and repent? That was
Yen's intention, understood? Yen wanted to
consider how Mao is, how he stands above the community,
whether he will repent himself or
not. As for others, Yen will only
let them come up and repent. Those are two
different ways Yen treats people in two different positions,
understood? Yen will wait and see, because
when Mao sees Yen, he has a look of
shame. And from yesterday until
today, he has been thinking and then saying this.
Here, Yen says that the community should learn.
If we say it's high, Mao is also high
because Mao is saying everything below.
Sister Yến is at the temple. Above her is Sister
Oanh, then Sister Mai, and of course,
each person has a position, but it's also a
position for communicating with the congregation. Is it
difficult to be in a high position and admit one's mistakes before the congregation? It's very difficult.
So, Yến considers whether
these people are willing to do it voluntarily, whether they have enough merit
to remind others.
If they have enough merit to remind
others, they must be able to turn their hearts around and
repent before the entire congregation. Only then
can they have enough merit
to do work in Buddhism. So, the
congregation must understand this:
those who help Yến in her work are
treated differently.
Do you understand? Yến has a different way of dealing with each person.
Never think about
why she scolds you and
not others. Everyone has a
different way of dealing with them. The person closest to
Yến will be the one who receives the
most guidance. If she scolds, she
scolds the most. Do you understand? If she
criticizes, she will be criticized.
That's the most, not those people far away. I didn't say, "
Why do I never
see this person? I never scold this person
when it's necessary to scold them, okay everyone? I
only criticize when it's necessary.
Don't think that
Yen loves this person and hates that person. Because
all this work isn't for
Yen, but for each person themselves, okay everyone? I'm
only
reminding you because I'm here for everyone. So today, here,
Yen will also connect with Sister
Dung and the Minh Long Dharma Center. Yesterday,
there was this place, and Yen was afraid that the audience would
n't understand, and those who don't understand will
follow suit. Firstly, Sister
Dung. She doesn't know, she's also new,
so when she speaks, she expresses gratitude to the
gods and spirits before the venerable masters.
That's wrong, everyone, because
Sister Dung is also new, okay everyone?
Minh Long Dharma Center is completely
new, and she hasn't encountered these things yet. That means
no one has told Minh Long Dharma Center about this. Anyone who says
no one has told
Minh Long Dharma Center about this, then the karmic connection...
Yesterday, Sister Dung  To be honest, Yen only just realized
that this place needs a reminder about the highest level of reverence: the Three Jewels, Buddha,
Dharma, Sangha, and then the celestial beings below.
All the celestial beings and gods are below, and so are the multitude.
Because the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha are the
highest, we should address the Buddha first, then the
Sangha. But
when the Sangha is present, you must address the Sangha,
not just the Buddha. You should only say, "
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, I
respectfully address you, teacher," not "Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
I respectfully address the Buddha, I respectfully address the
Bodhisattvas and saints." The Sangha's presence is
meant for people to hear. There are no
Buddhas or Bodhisattvas here, so the teacher will demonstrate the Three Jewels. Do you
understand? You can't just stand up and say, "Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, I respectfully address the Buddhas, I respectfully address the Bodhisattvas and saints, then respectfully address the Sangha." That's not right. So, Yen is guiding
us on how to speak properly, how to
speak in a way that's appropriate.  "
Respectfully addressing
the teacher, always respectfully addressing the
monks, not just the
other way. When showing respect, you
should address the Buddha first, then the present Sangha. The
Buddha and the present Sangha are the
main Dharma, which is what you are using.
That respectful heart is the Dharma.
Do you understand? This is to let us
know how to speak. That's all I'm
mentioning.
Respectfully addressing the teacher and the Sangha, we
have a question. Firstly,
after these three days of practice,
I've realized that I've
only been practicing by simply following what I
see and hear. Because
of this, I haven't been able to transform my
family's karma; in fact, it's the
opposite. Now that we have little
time left before we have to leave the teacher and
the Sangha, please share and
teach us how to think about the Dharma when we return home, using only the Dharma
teachings we heard during these three days.
Please teach us how to
apply the Dharma to
our daily lives to transform our
karma."  The second thing that's undesirable is that
suffering clings to you every day,
hour by hour, minute by minute, meal by meal,
sleep by sleep, day after day, month
after month, year after year.
So, the question, "
Please explain clearly, teacher, the question B,
suffering gives rise to joy, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
" To reach that point, first,
we Buddhists must use the Dharma
by speaking less. Teacher, do you understand? Only then can we
contemplate within ourselves. That
's the beginning. Then, we'll ask you about the
following parts. That is, when you
feel you don't need to talk to someone
about anything anymore, only
then can you penetrate the Dharma.
Anyone who talks to others will
never penetrate the Dharma, and because they
can't penetrate the Dharma, they can't
transform. Do you understand?
Then, after C, answer each part as it comes, otherwise
you'll forget. It's about contemplating the
Dharma only for yourself,
not to go and tell
others. Buddhists have a weakness, a
weakness...  When suffering arises, you hear the
Dharma and then speak it out, but you
don't accept it as beneficial to yourself. It's like
someone who is thirsty but drinks water quickly and
spits it out, drinking water and then spitting it out again, not
absorbing the Dharma to transform themselves.
Do you understand? Remember, you practice for yourself, not for
others. That's what ruins you. The purpose of
practice is because your mind is always
distracted and focused on others. That's
how you can practice. When
you practice, people will naturally benefit from it, understand?
That means people
around you will feel it.
You don't need to say it out loud. In
Buddhism, the teacher has lectured on this many times, and I've
mentioned it many times too. When should you say it? When
people ask, they seek it out.
Sister, I do what I do, so when
people ask, I answer. But
our Buddhists have a
weakness, like the teacher said, they just press on people
to talk. They listen and then
sit down and talk wherever they are. That's not how it is. Have you ever seen
me speak
in a way that's inappropriate? Firstly...  There must
be a second reminder: it must be
asked, besides those two circumstances, I
never say anything. I only see the assembly, I only
talk to the masses,
and even then, there must be circumstances. First, I'll
examine this Dharma teaching; second, people ask questions;
third, the assembly sees if someone makes a mistake and agrees.
Beyond those, I
never say anything. Okay, let's just talk about one thing,
sir. Let's practice patience and be patient for a
while, see how our minds are.
Two nights lying in the forest, I also
contemplated the impermanence of the world, the impermanence of the body,
and the difference between impermanence and hunger. Then I went
straight to my specifics: even so, I still
remembered my
wife, I still remembered my children, I still thought about
this and that. I think this is probably the
state of mind of many people,
but after listening to Ms. Yen's
Dharma teaching and self-reflection,
I slept very well for two nights. That's the
first thing. The second reason why I
slept so well is because two
years ago, I don't remember the exact date, but I
heard a lecture about two
monks meeting the Buddha. I contemplated...  I'm presenting
this part, and I ask the congregation to listen and
recall this story. Because
of the journey from the temple down here and
lying on this silver platform, I've noticed that
just listening, like
Ms. Yen said, is like reciting scriptures without understanding them. So,
I ask the congregation to allow me to
repeat a verse from the Buddha. Regarding the
two monks who came to
the Buddha, the Buddha said, "You believe in me but
do not understand me, that is the absence of me." And especially,
what is this verse? You believe in me but do not understand me;
trying to follow me is
too far from me. Through contemplating this verse
with Ms. Yen's very detailed guidance
and the teachings of my teacher over many years,
I
realize how ignorant I was. I
couldn't contemplate it, and I just kept reciting the Buddha's name and
listening to scriptures every day
without understanding. So, after three days of
spiritual practice up here, I've gained
a lot of experience for myself,
and I'm sure this is also the
feeling of many people because they've been listening.  The
most impressive thing about the Buddha was that he didn't understand the Dharma. That's why
I slept very well for two nights, and I'm
sure I'll sleep well tonight too. Amitabha Buddha.
Your contemplation is also very good.
However, next time you speak,
don't add the phrase "I contemplate that all
phenomena are impermanent and without self." That's just a
theoretical statement because it's impossible for someone to
contemplate like that. Only at a
very high level of meditation
can one contemplate
everything. Don't say
things that are bookish but
not based on your own reality. Do
you understand? Impermanence and without self
are indeed the Buddha's teachings, but if you have
n't attained that understanding through contemplation, you shouldn't
say it. Otherwise,
people will ridicule you.
For example, a single thought you contemplated, like remembering your
wife, is correct. Remembering your wife
is what you understand,
because it's attachment. Attachment is something you cultivate
daily, and if you don't cut it off, then
it...  The arising of thoughts of remembering one's wife and
those thoughts won't bring
peace to oneself. That's the very nature of
those thoughts, do you understand? That's why we
see the value of practice and
those who want to escape the cycle of reincarnation. It's true that one
must practice this way, this method of cultivation, to
escape. That's what we
must understand. And what is gratitude? It's about
cultivating gratitude towards the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) to
see the blessings of the Three Jewels and the
blessings of the venerable teachers. That
's what we Buddhists need to
contemplate. And there's another part: the
Buddha taught
these verses correctly: whoever sees me but
doesn't practice my teachings is like
being a thousand miles away from me. That means they don't see me.
But whoever doesn't see me but practices
my teachings is like being right next to me.
Do you understand? However, I
also want to say this so that we
don't fall into
this mistake: we only understand
a little of this now, but because of
this little understanding, when we see someone who worships the
Buddha and criticize them, or someone who recites the Buddha's name and
criticize them...
You will be digging your own graves
because of arrogance. You
must cultivate the right conditions for what is right, do you understand?
When you need to recite the Buddha's name, you must recite it; when you need to pay
homage to the Buddha, you
must pay homage;
when you need to meditate, you must meditate; when you need to practice Vipassana meditation, you must practice Vipassana meditation. It's
not about having a tiny bit of thought and then criticizing it
later.
Or hearing this today and thinking this way and that way isn't criticism, do
you understand? This is just
my understanding, not my true self yet.
I only know that
I must contemplate and practice the Buddha's teachings.
Otherwise, I haven't reached the
path of liberation. Those who can
fully comprehend the Buddha's teachings must be ordained
monks and nuns; they are not bound by attachments, evil karmic connections, or other attachments.
Therefore, I cannot abandon paying homage to the Buddha, I
cannot abandon chanting
scriptures, do you understand? And in addition to
chanting scriptures and paying homage to the Buddha, I also have
time for meditation.
This is just an addition; in
essence, as long as there is attachment, my mind is still filled with
delusions, and I cannot meditate. Do you understand? As for greed and attachment...  It's
still far from
Zen. It's about transcending the bonds of
craving, that is, transcending. The four kinds of
monks, that is, they
must transcend before they can cultivate the Dharma of freedom from craving,
that is, attain enlightenment.
As for us, the general public, we
can practice,
practice observation, and contemplate. Of course, in the
Dharma-clarification sessions, I have encouraged the
general public many times, but only today
do the general public see the value, do they
see it right? And how to practice,
how to do it, today, after three days of practicing here, the
general public knows, feels,
sees the value, and sees the need to
practice, to cut off craving. And we
need to transcend, not talk, not
interact much with things that don't
bring us any benefit, because the
benefit of meditation is that we
need something else. So, whoever wants to cultivate
contemplation must practice the
first step. That first step is the
step of not being judgmental. It's not about
finding someone to share a cake or candy
with, or
finding someone to share a meal with. That is...  It's always
necessary to have someone to eat with,
someone to share things with. It's not necessary to be a master; do
you understand? So, in joy, sorrow, and suffering, you
must find someone to share them with. That's
not right. If you
don't know how to solve a problem,
find someone to guide you. For
everything else, you have to practice and get used to it.
Now, I respectfully ask
everyone to go home.
[Music]